- [Instructor] There are a few other components
and projects that I would like to at least make you aware of
within the Spring ecosystem.
Some of these are their own complete domain area.
Let's start with some of the constructs
from the core Spring framework itself
that we haven't touched in this course.
The first one is SpEL or Spring Expression Language
that can be used to modify properties
based on the presence of some value.
This is really popular when dealing with the injection
of values that differ based on environment,
when you have more than just a simple property to go off of.
Now, we've mentioned AOP,
but we haven't written any aspects.
I have a core Spring framework in depth
in which you actually will write aspects themselves.
But AOP in general allows you the capability
to aspect anything inside your code,
and to use it for repeatable behavior.
Transaction management is something that is very common,
especially in enterprise data applications.
Spring has a rich transaction framework.
Again, based on an aspect
that I encourage you to read deeply about
if you are working on backend systems,
specifically in the enterprise based on RDBMS.
Spring web itself has rich internationalization support
built in such that you can provide bundles
with different translations of the values
in your application, specifically,
those static elements on the page that need to be translated
before making your application available globally.
Spring also has rich support for WebSockets
built into the web.
We've been dealing with traditional web-based requests,
but Spring itself has a very powerful, reactive web model
based on flux.
And if you want to write reactive web services,
I highly suggest you take a look at everything contained
within Spring WebFlux.
JMS is something that is near and dear to my heart
that I've used a lot throughout my career.
And Spring has a JMS template that you can use
to build both producers and consumers of messages.
Spring also allows you to execute tasks
and to schedule those tasks within the framework.
And of course, caching.
Caching is anything that we want to be backed
by a cache store so that our application can save hits
to an underlying database or remote service.
And Spring has a very simple annotation based
caching mechanism.
Now Spring Boot itself also comes with some rich support
for tooling that we haven't touched.
And actuator is one of my favorites.
I've got a course Spring Boot essential training
that will go deep into actuator and how to configure it,
utilize it for operations and ultimately extended
to meet your needs as an operator of an application.
We also haven't really touched much on logging
and logging is something that comes from the core framework,
but more specifically, it's wired for you with Spring Boot.
And traditionally in a microservices,
cloud native environment, we're going to log to standard out.
So we need to have structured logs that can be picked up
and sent to our log aggregation.
And Spring Boot provides that out of the box
with additional customization that you can do
such as logging output and behavior of those logs.
There's also a great CLI that you can use
to build applications.
And it's something that I've used
when I've tried to automate the creation
of new applications, using both the combination
of the Spring Initializr web service in the CLI.
It can be very easy to start a new application
without using things like an IDE or a web page.
And finally, I want to touch on some of those
additional projects within the Spring ecosystem
that we haven't looked at.
AMQP is a very rich message protocol that you can use
for a wide variety of AMQP based solutions like Rabbit.
Spring Batch allows you to do batch operations within Spring
and provides a run time to manage those batches themselves.
And if you find yourself doing a lot of batch work
in your enterprise,
you might take a look at Spring Batch as the management,
as well as the structure of building those batch jobs.
I have an entire course on Spring Cloud,
which encompasses many of Netflix open source offerings
wrapped into Spring
because Netflix is a very active user of Spring.
And they contributed a lot of their cloud-based
and cloud native based systems to the community
for us to use.
Again, that core Spring, Spring Cloud
will dig into some of those elements,
but Spring Cloud itself is very rich
for all different kinds of environments.
GraphQL is a relatively new player in the market,
but Spring allows you to use Java GraphQL
and expose GraphQL resources and mutations out to the world
through the use of Spring.
Spring Session allows you
to manage the session of a web user with robust support
for backing those with data stores.
And Spring Integration is a project that allows you
to use basic enterprise integration strategies
within Spring, such as channels.
This is a very deep topic.
And if you find yourself doing a lot of ETL
and integration type work,
you might find Spring Integration to be a very valuable tool
in your tool suite.
And finally Spring Shell allows you to write
your own command line application using Spring
so that you can distribute it to either your users
or your customers,
or just keep it for yourself for operational needs,
where you want to write a simple shell application
that you can use for various topics.